# Linux installation trouble shooting/Tips

이 블로깅은, NVIDIA 그래픽카드를 사용하면서, ubuntu 설치때 엄한 화면만 보여주는 사람들을 위한 블로깅 (화면 캡쳐 삽입)
At this post, I want to share try-and-error experience when I was try to install and setup ubuntu at my personal linux server.
컴퓨터 사양 (Server main components)
CPU : i9-7900x
RAM : 128GB
SSD : SAMSUNG M2 960 512GB
HDD : TOSHIBA 2TB
GPU : GTX-1080Ti

Linux 설치용 LiveUSB를 만든다.
Make Ubuntu LiveUSB thmb drive 

USB로 부팅을 시키는데, try ubuntu ~ 나 Installing ubuntu에 커서를 놓고 "e" 키를 누른다. 눌러서 표시되는 내용 중에 아래 내용을 변경한다 (화면캡쳐삽입)
At the first step, type keyboard 'e' over the "try ubuntu and installing" or "installing ubuntu", and add "nomodeset" as followings.

-------------------------------
What is "nomodeset"
NVIDIA device와 호환성이 좋지 않은 nouveau 를 X 서버에서 디폴트 로딩하지 않고 부팅할 수 있게 함.
Normally, Ubuntu has not compatible driver for NVIDIA the name of "nouveau", so block nouveau to loading on X server.

방법으로는, nouveau를 Blacklist에 올리거나 recovery mode 에서 nouveau=0 으로 Off 할 수도 있지만, 여러분의 선택이다. 
There is some way to achieve this, you may register blacklist or nouveau off at the recovery mode as "nouveau=0"
-------------------------------

quiet slpash - - -
quiet slpash nomodeset 

이후 F10을 눌러서 Try Ubuntu and installing 혹은 Installing Ubuntu로 들어간다
Then, press F10 key one the keyboard, and start try ubuntu and installing or installing ubuntu mode.

정상 설치 후 재시작함
Install Ubuntu and restart.

재시작을 위해 종료되었을 때 LiveUSB는 제거한다
During restarting (before usb thumb drive found), remove LiveUSB from USB port

재시작할때, alt 키를 누르고 있으면 검은 화면에 커서가 보이다가 선택모드에 들어간다. (화면캡쳐삽입)
When start RESTARTING process, press and hold 'ALT" key before option list including following image.

Ubuntu 커서 위에서 e를 눌러서 아래를 nomodeset으로 변경한다.
type keyboard 'e' over the "Ubuntu", and add "nomodeset" as followings.

As Is : quiet slpash $vt_handoff
To Be : quiet slpash nomodeset

이후 F10을 눌러서 부팅을 하면된다
Then, prss F10 key on the keyboard, and you can start Ubuntu :)

부팅 이후 터미널을 열어서 GRUB관련 내용(아래 내용) 을 설치 혹은 설치된 내용을 확인한다. 
After success booting, open "Terminal" and Install/Install check GRUB packages like below.

sudo apt-get install grub
sudo apt-get install grub2
sudo apt-get install grub2-common
sudo apt-get update
-- you can try both of them


Grub에서 다음 부팅될 때 Nomodeset 옵션을 자동으로 인지하기위해 아래의 내용을  GRUB에 변경하고 저장한다. 아래의 명령어를 실행한다.
To apply next booting (nomodeset booting), modify GRUB document and save it like followings (Add "nomodeset").

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
As Is : quiet slpash
To Be : quiet slpash nomodeset

그리고 다음 부팅전에 변경내용을 반영하기 위해서 grub를 업데이트 해줘야하는데, 아래 명령어로 수행한다
Then, to apply your work at the next every booting, you need to update GRUB, so execute following commands.

sudo update-grub

만약에 이 명령어가 실행하지 않는다면, apt-get 으로 GRUB 관련 패키지를 설치하거나 업데이트한다.
If above commands does not work, you need install GRUB package or update.

아래는 추가로 수행해도되고 안해도 된다.
Following work is optional.

혹시나 lightdm으로인해 문제가 생길 수 있으니, gdm 으로 변경해본다면?
Just to be sure, lightdm option may make problem, so you can change option to gdm.

sudo apt-get install gdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
And select "gdm3"

Reference : https://m.blog.naver.com/PostView.nhn?blogId=kalkins&logNo=80189440368&proxyReferer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F


Nvidia driver Setting ( you can find NVIDIA driver at official NVIDIA website )
여기서 이걸 수행하기 전에 GCC, make 를 먼저 설치한다
Before start driver installation, you need to install GCC and Make like following command set.

sudo apt-get install gcc
sudo apt-get install make

설치하다가 에러가 나는 부분은 무시할 수 없지만, 마지막에 워닝이 뜨는 부분은 overwrite 해 버리고 나가면 됨
You may not ignore (You can't ignore :)) errors during installing, you may ignore warning the thme of around finalize installation (you can select "overwrite" option).

설치가 끝난 후 바로 그래픽이 좋아졌음을 알 수 없고, 컴퓨터를 껐다 켜야 적용된다.
You may not find better graphic status immediately after complete NVIDIA driver installation, you may see better graphic after restart system.

Reference : http://pythonkim.tistory.com/48
